Char Dham

Char Dham is one of the most important Hindu Pilgrimages in India. It is a set of four pilgrimage sites in India. The four pilgrimage sites are

Badrinath
Rameswaram
Dwaraka
Puri
Every Hindu should visit the Char Dhams during one's lifetime.

History of Badrinath
Badrinath is located in the state of Uttarakhand. It is in the Garhwal hills, on the banks of the Alaknanda River.

Badrinath or Badrinarayana Temple is a Hindu temple dedicated to Vishnu which is situated in the town of Badrinath in Uttarakhand, India which is the main attraction in the town. The temple has three structures: the Garbhagriha (sanctum), the Darshan Mandap (worship hall), and Sabha Mandap (convention hall).

There are many stories behind the Badrinath temple. According to Skand Puran the idol of Lord Badrinath was recovered by Adiguru Shankaracharya from Narad Kund and was re-enshrined in the 8th century A.D. in this temple. Skanda Purana describes more about the place: “There are several sacred shrines in heaven, on earth, and in hell; but there is no shrine like Badrinath.”

Another legend, narrated by Vishnu Purana, states that Nar and Narayan, both sons of Dharam chose the place to spread their religion. While searching for a place to set up a hermitage, they came across the other four Badris of the Pancha Badri, namely Dhyan Badri, Bridha Badri, Bhavish Badri and Yog Bhadri. After finding the hot and cold spring behind the Alaknanda River and named it Badri Vishal.



History of Rameswaram
Rameswaram located in the South is in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It is situated in the Gulf of Mannar at the very tip of the Indian peninsula.

Ramanathaswamy Temple is a Hindu temple dedicated to the god Shiva located on Rameswaram island in the state of Tamil Nadu, India. It is also one of the twelve Jyotirlinga temples.

According to legends, this is the place where Lord Ram along with his brother Laxman and devotee Hanuman built a bridge (Rama Setu) to reach Sri Lanka to rescue his wife Sita who had been abducted earlier by Ravan, the ruler of Sri Lanka. The Ramanatha Swamy Temple dedicated to Lord Shiva occupies a major area of Rameswaram. The temple is believed to have been consecrated by Shri Rama Chandra. Rameswaram is significant for the Hindus as a pilgrimage to Benaras is incomplete without a pilgrimage to Rameswaram. The presiding deity here is in the form of a Linga with the name Sri Ramanatha Swamy, it also is one of the twelve Jyotirlingas.


History of Dwaraka
Dwarka located in the west is in the state of Gujarat, country India.It is located confluence to where the Gomti River merges into the Arabian Sea.The legendary city of Dvārakā was the dwelling place of Lord Krishna. It is generally believed that due to damage and destruction by the sea, Dvārakā had submerged six times and modern day Dwarka is the 7th such city to be built in the area.

The Dwarkadhish temple, also known as the Jagat Mandir is a Hindu temple dedicated to Lord Krishna which is located in Dwaraka. According to local beliefs, the Dwarkadhish Temple had been originally built by Lord Krishna’s great grandson Vajranabha in honour of the Lord over 2,500 years ago. In 800 AD, the temple was renovated by Adi Shankaracharya, and a memorial of his visit is placed within the temple’s complex. Thereafter, there are believed to have been several renovations to the temples by visitors and rulers.



History of Puri
Puri located at the east, is located in the state of Odisha, India. Puri is one of the oldest cities in the eastern part of the country. It is situated on the coast of the Bay of Bengal. The main deity is Shri Krishna, celebrated as Lord Jagannatha.

Jagannath Temple was constructed by King Chodaganga. The king started the construction and Jaga mohan or the assembly hall and Vimana or chariot of the temple were constructed during his reign. Later Anangabhima Deva completed the construction of the temple in 1174AD. According to legend, the construction of the first Jagannath temple was commissioned by King Indradyumna, son of Bharata and Sunanda, and a Malava king, mentioned in the Mahabharata and the Puranas.

